[Outlook] (log event) Add article (#3050)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/outlook/mobile-log-appointments.md

1. In your code editor, open the quick start project.

1. Open the **manifest.xml** file located at the root of your project.

1. Select the entire `<VersionOverrides>` node (including open and close tags) and replace it with the following XML. Make sure to replace all references to **Contoso** with your company's information.

```xml
<VersionOverrides xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/office/mailappversionoverrides" xsi:type="VersionOverridesV1_0">
  <VersionOverrides xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/office/mailappversionoverrides/1.1" xsi:type="VersionOverridesV1_1">
    <Description resid="residDescription"></Description>
    <Requirements>
      <bt:Sets>
        <bt:Set Name="Mailbox" MinVersion="1.3"/>
      </bt:Sets>
    </Requirements>
    <Hosts>
      <Host xsi:type="MailHost">
        <MobileFormFactor>
          <FunctionFile resid="residFunctionFile"/>
          <ExtensionPoint xsi:type="MobileLogEventAppointmentAttendee">
            <OfficeTab id="TabDefault">

>               <Group id="mobileLogGroup">

Reviewer: This extension point can have just one control. Either a task pane or a ui-less function. Please refer this doc shared.
-Manbendra

## Implement capturing appointment details using a UI-less command

In this section, learn how your add-in can extract appointment details when the user taps the **Log** button.

1. From the same quick start project, open the file **./src/commands/commands.js** in your code editor.

1. Replace the entire content of the **commands.js** file with the following JavaScript.

    ```js
    // Office is ready.
    Office.onReady(function () {
        // Add any initialization code here.
      }
    );

    function logCRMEvent(event) {
      console.log(`Subject: ${Office.context.mailbox.item.subject}`);
      Office.context.mailbox.item.body.getAsync(
        "html",
        { asyncContext: "This is passed to the callback" },
        function callback(result) {
          if (result.status === Office.AsyncResultStatus.Succeeded) {
            event.completed({ allowEvent: true });
          } else {
            console.error("Failed to get body.");
            event.completed({ allowEvent: false });
          }
        }
      );
    }

>     function getGlobal() {

Reviewer: this function may not be required
-Manbendra

Author: I believe this is to support UI-less functionality in OWA - which should apply for the AppointmentAttendeeCommandSurface

    ```js
    function getEventData() {
      console.log(`Subject: ${Office.context.mailbox.item.subject}`);
      Office.context.mailbox.item.body.getAsync(
        "html",
        function callback(result) {
          if (result.status === Office.AsyncResultStatus.Succeeded) {
            console.log("event logged successfully");
            updateCustomProperties();
          } else {
            console.error("Failed to get body.");
            clearCustomProperties();
          }
        }
      );
    }
    ```

---

## Testing and validation

- Follow the usual guidance to [test and validate your add-in](testing-and-tips.md).
- After [sideloading](sideload-outlook-add-ins-for-testing.md) in Outlook on the web, Windows, or Mac, restart Outlook on your Android mobile device.
- Open an appointment as an attendee then verify that under the **Meeting Insights** card, there's a new card with your add-in's name alongside the **Log** button.

### UI: Log the appointment notes

As a meeting attendee, you should see a screen similar to the following image when you open a meeting.

> ![Screenshot showing the Log button on an appointment screen on Android.](../images/outlook-android-log-appointment-details.png)

Author: These were provided in the Word doc. Can you provide Android replacements if that's the case?

### UI: View the appointment log

After successfully logging the appointment notes, the button should now be labeled **View** instead of **Log**. You should see a screen similar to the following image.

![Screenshot showing the View button on an appointment screen on Android.](../images/outlook-android-view-appointment-log.png)

## Available APIs

> The following APIs are available for this feature.

Author: Added

---
title: Log appointment notes to an external application in Outlook mobile add-ins
description: Learn how to set up an Outlook mobile add-in to log appointment notes and other details to an external application.
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 04/26/2022
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Log appointment notes to an external application in Outlook mobile add-ins

Saving your appointment notes and other details to a customer relationship management (CRM) or note-taking application can help you keep track of meetings you've attended.

In this article, you'll learn how to set up your Outlook mobile add-in to enable users to log notes and other details about their appointments to your CRM or note-taking application. Throughout this article, we'll be using a fictional CRM service provider named "Contoso".

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This feature is only supported on Android with a Microsoft 365 subscription.

## Set up your environment

Complete the [Outlook quick start](../quickstarts/outlook-quickstart.md?tabs=yeomangenerator) to create an add-in project with the Yeoman generator for Office Add-ins.

> ## Implement capturing and viewing appointment notes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Capture and view appointment notes
```

> ## Implement capturing and viewing appointment notes

Reviewer 2: I simplified this further to 'Capture and view appointment notes'. Let me know if you prefer to include 'implement'.

1. From the same quick start project, open the file **./src/commands/commands.js** in your code editor.

1. Replace the entire content of the **commands.js** file with the following JavaScript.

    ```js
    var event;

    Office.initialize = function (reason) {
      // Add any initialization code here.
    };

    function logCRMEvent(appointmentEvent) {
      event = appointmentEvent;
      console.log(`Subject: ${Office.context.mailbox.item.subject}`);
      Office.context.mailbox.item.body.getAsync(
        "html",
        { asyncContext: "This is passed to the callback" },
        function callback(result) {
          if (result.status === Office.AsyncResultStatus.Succeeded) {
            event.completed({ allowEvent: true });
          } else {
            console.error("Failed to get body.");
            event.completed({ allowEvent: false });
          }
        }
      );
    }

    function getGlobal() {
      return typeof self !== "undefined"
        ? self
        : typeof window !== "undefined"
        ? window
        : typeof global !== "undefined"
        ? global
        : undefined;
    }

    const g = getGlobal();

>     g.logCRMEvent = logCRMEvent;

Author: @Rick-Kirkham Can you confirm if these statements and the getGlobal function should be replaced with an associate statement per PR https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr/pull/3389? Thanks.

Author: > @Rick-Kirkham Can you confirm if these statements and the getGlobal function should be replaced with an associate statement per PR #3389? Thanks.

@Rick-Kirkham Following up on this question. Should we replace this with an associate statement? Thx.

Reviewer 3: Yes.

> > @Rick-Kirkham Can you confirm if these statements and the getGlobal function should be replaced with an associate statement per PR #3389? Thanks.
> 
> @Rick-Kirkham Following up on this question. Should we replace this with an associate statement? Thx.

Yes.

    ```

### Implement viewing appointment notes

> The **Log** button label can be toggled to display **View** by setting the **EventLogged** custom property reserved for this purpose. Then when the user selects the **View** button, they can look at their logged notes for this appointment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **Log** button label can be toggled to display **View** by setting the **EventLogged** custom property reserved for this purpose. When the user selects the **View** button, they can look at their logged notes for this appointment.
```

                if (removeSaveAsyncResult.status === Office.AsyncResultStatus.Succeeded) {
                  console.log("Custom properties cleared");
                  event.completed({ allowEvent: true });
                  event = undefined;
                }
              }
            );
          }
        }
      );
    }
    ```

Then call it when you want to clear the custom property. For example, you can call it from **logCRMEvent** if setting the log failed in some way as shown in the following function.

  ```js
  function logCRMEvent(appointmentEvent) {
    event = appointmentEvent;
    console.log(`Subject: ${Office.context.mailbox.item.subject}`);
    Office.context.mailbox.item.body.getAsync(
      "html",
      { asyncContext: "This is passed to the callback" },
      function callback(result) {
        if (result.status === Office.AsyncResultStatus.Succeeded) {
          updateCustomProperties();
        } else {
          console.error("Failed to get body.");
          // Replace `event.completed({ allowEvent: false });` with the following statement.
          clearCustomProperties();
        }
      }
    );
  }
  ```

# [Task pane](#tab/taskpane)

> This option shows how to enable a user to log and view their notes and other details about their appointments from a task pane.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This option will enable a user to log and view their notes and other details about their appointments from a task pane.
```

  Office.context.mailbox.item.loadCustomPropertiesAsync(
    function callback(customPropertiesResult) {
      if (customPropertiesResult.status === Office.AsyncResultStatus.Succeeded) {
        let customProperties = customPropertiesResult.value;
        customProperties.set("EventLogged", true);
        customProperties.saveAsync(
          function callback(setSaveAsyncResult) {
            if (setSaveAsyncResult.status === Office.AsyncResultStatus.Succeeded) {
              console.log("EventLogged custom property saved successfully.");
            }
          }
        );
      }
    }
  );
}
```

You can then call it after the add-in successfully logs the appointment notes. For example, you can call it from **getEventData** as follows.

```js
function getEventData() {
  console.log(`Subject: ${Office.context.mailbox.item.subject}`);
  Office.context.mailbox.item.body.getAsync(
    "html",
    function callback(result) {
      if (result.status === Office.AsyncResultStatus.Succeeded) {
        console.log("event logged successfully");
        updateCustomProperties();
      } else {
        console.error("Failed to get body.");
      }
    }
  );
}
```

> ### Implement deleting the appointment log

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Delete the appointment log
```

            customProperties.saveAsync(
              function callback(removeSaveAsyncResult) {
                if (removeSaveAsyncResult.status === Office.AsyncResultStatus.Succeeded) {
                  console.log("Custom properties cleared");
                }
              }
            );
          }
        }
      );
    }
    ```

    You can then call it when you want to clear the custom property. For example, you can call it from **getEventData** if setting the log failed in some way as shown next.

    ```js
    function getEventData() {
      console.log(`Subject: ${Office.context.mailbox.item.subject}`);
      Office.context.mailbox.item.body.getAsync(
        "html",
        function callback(result) {
          if (result.status === Office.AsyncResultStatus.Succeeded) {
            console.log("event logged successfully");
            updateCustomProperties();
          } else {
            console.error("Failed to get body.");
            clearCustomProperties();
          }
        }
      );
    }
    ```

---

## Testing and validation

1. Follow the usual guidance to [test and validate your add-in](testing-and-tips.md).

> 1. After [sideloading](sideload-outlook-add-ins-for-testing.md) in Outlook on the web, Windows, or Mac, restart Outlook on your Android mobile device.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. After you [sideload](sideload-outlook-add-ins-for-testing.md) in Outlook on the web, Windows, or Mac, restart Outlook on your Android mobile device.
```

1. Open an appointment as an attendee then verify that under the **Meeting Insights** card, there's a new card with your add-in's name alongside the **Log** button.

### UI: Log the appointment notes

As a meeting attendee, you should see a screen similar to the following image when you open a meeting.

> ![Screenshot showing the Log button on an appointment screen on Android.](../images/outlook-android-log-appointment-details.jpg)

Reviewer 4: Both screenshots appear huge on my screen, I had to scroll to see the whole image. Consider scaling it down a bit so it appears on one page without scrolling.

Reviewer 2: Thanks, Linda. Screenshots have now been resized.

- [Appointment Read (attendee) APIs](/javascript/api/outlook/office.appointmentread?view=outlook-js-preview&preserve-view=true) **except** the following:
  - [Office.context.mailbox.item.categories](/javascript/api/outlook/office.appointmentread?view=outlook-js-preview&preserve-view=true#categories)
  - [Office.context.mailbox.item.enhancedLocation](/javascript/api/outlook/office.appointmentread?view=outlook-js-preview&preserve-view=true#enhancedLocation)
  - [Office.context.mailbox.item.isAllDayEvent](/javascript/api/outlook/office.appointmentread?view=outlook-js-preview&preserve-view=true#isAllDayEvent)
  - [Office.context.mailbox.item.recurrence](/javascript/api/outlook/office.appointmentread?view=outlook-js-preview&preserve-view=true#recurrence)
  - [Office.context.mailbox.item.sensitivity](/javascript/api/outlook/office.appointmentread?view=outlook-js-preview&preserve-view=true#sensitivity)
  - [Office.context.mailbox.item.seriesId](/javascript/api/outlook/office.appointmentread?view=outlook-js-preview&preserve-view=true#seriesId)

## Restrictions

Several restrictions apply.

> - The **Log** button name cannot be changed. However, there is a way for a different label to be displayed by setting a custom property on the appointment item. For more details, refer to the **Implement viewing appointment notes** section for [UI-less](?tabs=noui#implement-viewing-appointment-notes) or [task pane](?tabs=taskpane#implement-viewing-appointment-notes-1) as appropriate.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- The **Log** button name cannot be changed. However, there is a way to display a different label by setting a custom property on the appointment item. For more details, refer to the **Implement viewing appointment notes** section for [UI-less](?tabs=noui#view-appointment-notes) or [task pane](?tabs=taskpane#view-appointment-notes-1) as appropriate.
```
Because I suggested you change the heading to avoid gerunds, I believe this link needs to be updated. Please verify tabs work correctly!

Reviewer 2: Heading and links have been updated.

- The **EventLogged** custom property must be used if you want to toggle the label of the **Log** button to **View** and back.
- The add-in icon should be in grayscale using hex code `#919191` or its equivalent in [other color formats](https://convertingcolors.com/hex-color-919191.html).

> - The add-in should extract the meeting details from the appointment form within the one-minute timeout period. However, any time spent in a dialog box the add-in opened for authentication, etc. is excluded from the timeout period.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- The add-in should extract the meeting details from the appointment form within the one-minute timeout period. However, any time spent in a dialog box the add-in opened for authentication is excluded from the timeout period.
```

      </bt:Images>
      <bt:Urls>
        <bt:Url id="residFunctionFile" DefaultValue="https://contoso.com/commands.html"/>
      </bt:Urls>
      <bt:ShortStrings>
        <bt:String id="residDescription" DefaultValue="Log appointment notes and other details to Contoso CRM."/>
        <bt:String id="residLabel" DefaultValue="Log to Contoso CRM"/>
      </bt:ShortStrings>
      <bt:LongStrings>
        <bt:String id="residTooltip" DefaultValue="Log notes to Contoso CRM for this appointment."/>
      </bt:LongStrings>
    </Resources>
  </VersionOverrides>
</VersionOverrides>
```

> [!TIP]
> To learn more about manifests for Outlook add-ins, see [Outlook add-in manifests](manifests.md) and [Add support for add-in commands for Outlook Mobile](add-mobile-support.md).

### Implement capturing appointment notes

In this section, learn how your add-in can extract appointment details when the user selects the **Log** button.

1. From the same quick start project, open the file **./src/commands/commands.js** in your code editor.

1. Replace the entire content of the **commands.js** file with the following JavaScript.

    ```js

>     // Office is ready.

Reviewer: declare event variable here
`var event;`

    Office.onReady(function () {
        // Add any initialization code here.
      }
    );

>     function logCRMEvent(event) {

Reviewer: This code looks different from the doc at https://microsoft-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/r/personal/jatingupta_microsoft_com/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7B0895E3FF-26C8-4C9D-AB2E-0B8CD2A4FB60%7D&file=CRM%20on%20Mobile%20Documentation.docx&nav=eyJjIjozMjI1NDc1NTh9&action=default&mobileredirect=true&share=IQH_45UIyCadTKsuC4zSpPtgAfFtOM1lqvGpKMNg-7S5hYk

logCRMEvent just assigns the passed event object to event declared variable and calls `getEventProperties()` method

      console.log(`Subject: ${Office.context.mailbox.item.subject}`);
      Office.context.mailbox.item.body.getAsync(
        "html",
        { asyncContext: "This is passed to the callback" },
        function callback(result) {
          if (result.status === Office.AsyncResultStatus.Succeeded) {
            event.completed({ allowEvent: true });
          } else {
            console.error("Failed to get body.");
            event.completed({ allowEvent: false });
          }
        }
      );
    }

    function getGlobal() {
      return typeof self !== "undefined"
        ? self
        : typeof window !== "undefined"
        ? window
        : typeof global !== "undefined"
        ? global
        : undefined;
    }

    const g = getGlobal();
    g.logCRMEvent = logCRMEvent;
    ```

### Implement viewing appointment notes

> The **Log** button can be toggled to display **View** by setting the **EventLogged** custom property reserved for this purpose. Then when the user the user selects the **View** button, they can look at their logged notes for this appointment.

Reviewer: TYPO: the user the user

> The **Log** button can be toggled to display **View** by setting the **EventLogged** custom property reserved for this purpose. Then when the user the user selects the **View** button, they can look at their logged notes for this appointment.

Reviewer: Should we mention, once the event has been logged the button label can be changed from Log to View?
Directly writing that the button can be changed looks like a customization option and doesn't say when should the developer use it.

Add the following function to **./src/commands/commands.js**. This function sets the **EventLogged** custom property on the current appointment item.

```js
function updateCustomProperties(event) {
  Office.context.mailbox.item.loadCustomPropertiesAsync(
    function callback(customPropertiesResult) {
      if (customPropertiesResult.status === Office.AsyncResultStatus.Succeeded) {
        let customProperties = customPropertiesResult.value;
        customProperties.set("EventLogged", true);
        customProperties.saveAsync(
          function callback(setSaveAsyncResult) {
            if (setSaveAsyncResult.status === Office.AsyncResultStatus.Succeeded) {

>               console.log("EventLogged custom property saved successfully.");

Reviewer: Here apart for the log, we should also call
`event.completed({ allowEvent: true });`
`event = undefined;`

Author: Added

            }
          }
        );
      }
    }
  );
}
```

You can then call it after the add-in successfully logs the appointment notes. For example, you can call it from **LogCRMEvent** as follows.

```js
function logCRMEvent(event) {
  console.log(`Subject: ${Office.context.mailbox.item.subject}`);
  Office.context.mailbox.item.body.getAsync(
    "html",
    { asyncContext: "This is passed to the callback" },
    function callback(result) {
      if (result.status === Office.AsyncResultStatus.Succeeded) {
        // Replace `event.completed({ allowEvent: true });` with the following statement.
        updateCustomProperties(event);
      } else {
        console.error("Failed to get body.");
        event.completed({ allowEvent: false });
      }
    }
  );
}
```

> Your add-in defines the log viewing experience. For example, you can display the logged appointment notes in a dialog when the user selects the **View** button. For details on using dialogs, refer to [Use the Office dialog API in your Office Add-ins](../develop/dialog-api-in-office-add-ins.md).

Reviewer: Can we move this statement in the begining of this section? Maybe after 1 para

### Implement deleting the appointment log

If you'd like to enable your users to undo logging or delete the logged appointment notes so a replacement log can be saved, use Microsoft Graph to [clear the custom properties object](/graph/api/resources/extended-properties-overview?view=graph-rest-1.0&preserve-view=true) when the user selects the appropriate button in the ribbon.

> Add the following function to **./src/commands/commands.js** to clear the **EventLogged** custom property on the current appointment item.

Reviewer: Should we mention that the developer should use either of graph API approach or from an addin session using the below code

      <Hosts>
        <Host xsi:type="MailHost">
          <DesktopFormFactor>
            <FunctionFile resid="residFunctionFile"/>
            <ExtensionPoint xsi:type="AppointmentAttendeeCommandSurface">
              <OfficeTab id="TabDefault">
                <Group id="apptReadGroup">
                  <Label resid="residDescription"/>
                  <Control xsi:type="Button" id="apptReadOpenPaneButton">
                    <Label resid="residLabel"/>
                    <Supertip>
                      <Title resid="residLabel"/>
                      <Description resid="residTooltip"/>
                    </Supertip>
                    <Icon>
                      <bt:Image size="16" resid="icon-16"/>
                      <bt:Image size="32" resid="icon-32"/>
                      <bt:Image size="80" resid="icon-80"/>
                    </Icon>
                    <Action xsi:type="ShowTaskpane">
                      <SourceLocation resid="Taskpane.Url"/>
                    </Action>
                  </Control>
                </Group>
              </OfficeTab>
            </ExtensionPoint>
          </DesktopFormFactor>
          <MobileFormFactor>

>             <FunctionFile resid="residFunctionFile"/>

Reviewer: We don't need functionFile to be defined for a taskpane addin

          <bt:String id="residTooltip" DefaultValue="Log notes to Contoso CRM for this appointment."/>
        </bt:LongStrings>
      </Resources>
    </VersionOverrides>
</VersionOverrides>
```

> [!TIP]
> To learn more about manifests for Outlook add-ins, see [Outlook add-in manifests](manifests.md) and [Add support for add-in commands for Outlook Mobile](add-mobile-support.md).

### Implement capturing appointment notes

In this section, learn how to display the logged appointment notes and other details in a task pane when the user selects the **Log** button.

1. From the same quick start project, open the file **./src/taskpane/taskpane.js** in your code editor.

1. Replace the entire content of the **taskpane.js** file with the following JavaScript.

    ```js
    // Office is ready.
    Office.onReady(function () {
        getEventData();
      }
    );

    function getEventData() {
      console.log(`Subject: ${Office.context.mailbox.item.subject}`);
      Office.context.mailbox.item.body.getAsync(
        "html",
        function callback(result) {
          if (result.status === Office.AsyncResultStatus.Succeeded) {
            console.log("event logged successfully");

>             event.completed({ allowEvent: true });

Reviewer: I think you will be changing the code snippets for taskpane addin as per the doc as we don't have event object in taskpane addin.
